This file relates to version 1.0 of the MMURTL
computer operating system that accompanies the
book;
   Developing Your Own 32 Bit Computer Operating System.

This discusses known problems trying to run MMURTL, as well
as bugs, and portions of the code that are incomplete (under
development or scheduled for improvement).

1) LOADING AND RUNNING MMURTL

	If MMURTL will not run on your system, you may have to
	remove EMM386 from your Autoexec.BAT or Config.sys file.
	EMM386 doesn't take kindly to hostile memory take-overs.

	If you receive an error during file system initialization or
	hard disk device driver installation:

    a) Your disk controller may not be supported.
    MMURTL does not handle disk controllers that move
    32 bit data directly between the drive and memory
    (some do now, but unfortunately I don't own one..).
    All ISA driven controllers seem to work fine (I have
    tested more than 12 different ISA IDE controllers).

    b) SCSI disks and other SCSI devices are not currently supported.
    (no SCSI driver)

    c) Your data may be compressed by MS-DOS or another product
    such as Stacker. MMURTL does not support disk data compression.

    d) If you are running OS/2 V2.x or Warp (V3.x), MMURTL doesn't
    recognize the multiboot partition correctly. You can copy the
    MMSYS directory to a floppy and run it from there to
    test it.

2) WHAT'S NOT DONE??

	FILESYSTEM:

	a) The file system call to remove a directory is not completed
	so I didn't include it. Use MS-DOS to get rid of directories if
	needed.

	DLLs:

	a) DLLs are not yet supported. There are pieces to do in the
	compiler as well as the assembler and the OS itself. I am
	porting another (more powerful) compiler and I am concentrating
	on it, but it's nowhere near done...

	LOADING DEVICE DRIVERS:

	a) Device drivers can't be loaded dynamically. If you need to add
	a driver you will have to build it into the OS. That's actually
	quite easy to do, so I didn't strain myself getting it done.

	DASM LIBARARY SEARCH FUNCTION

	a) The search function (.SEARCH command) is not fully implimented.
	The work around is quite easy, and really there is not much
	library code to search through at this point in time anyway.
	Simply include the ASM modules in the ATF file. All of the samples
	programs and the operating system are built this way right now.
	They should provide you with good examples.

	COMMAND LINE INTERPRETER

	a) There is no wildcard feature in the file system or any
	template matching code in a library. This means *.* has no
	effect. The copy, rename, and delete functions all take single
	filenames.

3)  BUGS

	OPERATING SYSTEM

	a) On occasion, when a program is beating the filesystem to death
	and you attempt to load and run another CLI, the system crashes.
	It doesn't even make it into the debugger. It is apparently a
	processor double fault. Still looking for this one....

	b) The CTRL-ALT-DELETE function is a rather nasty way to shut down
	an application.	It was a late addition, but was necessary. On
	occasion is causes some problems. The system still functions and
	tasks appear to be running fine - but every once in a while when
	you use it, you can't switch to the other applications. This IS
	a problem I'm still looking for.

	CM32 C Compiler

	a) Occasionally when you have accidentally "nested" a function
	(which is not allowed in C) the compiler goes into a loop...
	It's churning away somehwere. I just haven't found out where
	that is yet.


This is version 1.0. You WILL find many other problems.
Let me know if you get the time. Send E-Mail to rburgess@aol.com.
(Please, bugs only)

Quite obviously, neither myself nor the publisher has time to really
support a product of this complexity. You're on your own. BUT at least
you DO have the source code.

Thanks, and I hope you get something out of all this!

Rich Burgess
Woodbridge, Va

